Cisco constantly releasing new versions of the so-called us which include new features as well as resolve
issues such as bugs in the IRS in this video we'll look at upgrading Cisco Iowas images the high level
steps that you firstly need to select and download the correct Iowas image for your router you then
need to verify connectivity to your TVT server where you've downloaded and stored the new Iowa image.
You should verify that your router has sufficient flash memory space for the new iOS image and then
you copy the Iowas file from the TFT server to the router.
You then configure the router to boot using the new Cisco Iowa image.
And then lastly reload the router so that it repeats and load the new Iowas image into memory.
In this example of an 1841 Grada so show version shows me the platform we are running currently the
SkyWest 1841 software.
So this is the current release and version of software that we're running.
This is the boot from operating system version.
And once again this is a Cisco 1841 router.
So on the Cisco Web site I've gone to support and downloads and I'm going to select 1841 integrated
services Rodda I'm going to select software on chessy.
And in this example I'm going to look at Cisco Iris images rather than run monitor all of the operating
systems and what you'd need to do now is download the relevant version of iOS.
Now it's important that the DRAM and Flash be large enough for the operating system that you downloading.
This router has the same amount of memory.
So you need to add those two together.
So that's the amount plus the amount
which gives us about 130 mega RAM.
We've got about 60 to make of Flash.
So my Rodda would not to be able to use the version of operating system because the RAM and flash requirements
are greater than what this Rodek currently has installed.
So very importantly make sure that your router can support both the DRAM and flash requirements of any
new operating system that you download from Cisco so click on the download link to download the operating
system.
You need to log in and make sure that you have a service contract.
So do that and then download the operating system to your local PC.
In my example I'm going to use the operating system which I've already downloaded.
You're going to want to make sure that your router has enough Flesch space for the new image that you
downloading so use the Camacho show flash to ensure that the amount of available space is enough for
the image that you want a copy to flash.
In my example of a ready copied image the image is only 15 meg in size and I have enough space in flash
to copy another version of this image or a different image into the flash of the Rodda.
At the moment this Rodda is using this operating system 12. full to T4 that can be seen in the flash
of the Rodda.
So this is the image that's being used.
Let's pretend that we're going to upgrade the broader to a newer version even though it's the same.
I'll show you the full process.
So what you would do is download the relevant operating system from Cisco and put it in your teeth to
be servers directory.
In this example I'm using solar winds and this is the directory that the be serviced pointing to.
So you would Topkapi in this example P.E. Flesch Precentor what does the IP address of the server.
So in my example it's 1 2 1 6 8 1 9 9.
What is the source file that we want to copy.
So that file make sure that you put an extension in the file name.
What does the destination file name.
In this example I'll make it file to we want with that that Folley already exists.
Do we want to override it.
And in this example I'm going to override it.
So that file will be overridden with this new file that's copied down from the TFT server so we can
see some messages on the TV service stating that the file is being fetched.
So there's a get message.
We can see the file being copied down to the router from the TFT server.
That'll take a while.
And the length of time depends on how large the Iowas fall is and what kind of connection you've got
between the two FTB server and the router.
If you're doing this across or when a wide area network as an example it could take a lot longer.
Now in that example there was a problem where part of the file wasn't successfully copied but it wouldn't
be a problem.
Even though we're using TFT P because the TFT protocol has retransmissions and checks of files received.
So even though you use a datagram protocol UDP is being used.
The TFT protocol ensures that the full file is copied and we can see that we had a check of the file
that succeeded.
So the file was copied successfully.
So once again in Flash This is the file that we've copied down and now we can tell the router to boot
the system from the flash and the file that we're going to use is this new file so I've added that command
to the running config.
Once again at the moment it's not using that file.
It's using the file 64 DUP.
Ben but we have now told the router to use T4 underscore too.
So it's a different file to the original file that the router is using.
So I'll save the configuration and then I'll reload the router.
So when the router boots now it will use the new file rather than the previous file as the operating
system that's loaded into memory.
I'll speed up the boot process and the video to save you the time of watching the rot a boot up.
OK serratus booted up.
I'll press enter to continue.
Put in my relevant password.
Show version shows us now that it's using that teach for under school to burn file.
So it's now using the new operating system that we downloaded from the TFT server.
It's not using the original file that we had in Flash.
It's using this file rather than the file.